# python-developer-test

# Local Development

Create the virtual environment.

```bash
pyenv install 3.13.5
pyenv local 3.13.5
pyenv virtualenv 3.13.5 url-crawler
pyenv activate url-crawler
```

## Install Dependencies

This will install any required packages. Re-run this command if dependencies change.

```bash
pip install -r requirements.dev
```

## Run

```bash
python src\__main__.py https://www.zego.com/ --log=error --cache
```

## Test

```bash
python
```

## Lint

```bash
black .
```

# Test Notes
IDE: VSCode
AI: Copilot

Added a lot of notes within the code, but here's a high level explanation of my approach:

The first step was to solve the problem (First Commit), so I focused on having a working solution before starting working on performance.

Created a module with a main crawler class that contains the business logic. The class is also composed (by dependency injection) with an http retriever and a html parser.

Added some basic logging as well as some caching as an hypothetical scenario to exemplify the advantages of having a separate class that downloads the html (Plus it was useful while developing).

The CLI piece is a concrete client of the urlparser module, uses standard argparse.

## Performance

To improve performance: concurrency, more specifically multi-threading. While python is single threaded and bound to the GLI, a multi-threaded solution actually has a performance advantage in this case due to the IO blocking nature of the downloads. In comparison a multi-process approach is prefered for CPU intensive tasks.

There are a lot of ways to approach multithreading in python. asyncio with async and await functions is probably the most common. I chose a thread pool with consumers of a shared queue instead, as I figured I could showcase some less AI, less common implementation.

## Tests

Not exhaustive in any means, but illustrations of different types and purpose of tests that need to be written.

Test templates generated by autopilot, modified to fit the testing needs.

### Integration tests.
I'm a strong supporter of the testing Trophy (in contrast of testing pyramid), favoring integration tests over unit tests.

### Unit Tests
I encourage unit test for individual behavior, if you have to mock more than a couple of dependencies then write an integration test (Or write better testable code!)

# Future Improvements

* Improve repository setup if needed. E.G. poetry or conda
* Hooks to lint (E.G. Black), test and run heuristics (Code coverage, Sonarqube etc.)
* Pipelines to pack and publish package to company repository, like nexus.
* Expand parser class to search for more than anchors in Links